5.0.1 & 4.6.23 releases (#2880)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v5.0.md

<div class="release-notes" markdown="1">

[[% set version = 'v5.0.1' %]]

[[= release_note_entry_begin("Ibexa DXP " + version, '2025-08-19', ['Headless', 'Experience', 'Commerce', 'New feature']) =]]

#### Special characters in online editor

The [online editor](online_editor_guide.md) now allows to easily enter special characters like currency symbols.
It uses the [special characters plugin](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/special-characters.html),

![Special characters in online editor](4.6_special_characters.png "Special characters in online editor")

#### Support for Solr 9

With this release, [[= product_name =]] starts supporting [Solr 9](requirements.md#search).

Solr 9 comes with support for [Dense Vector Search](https://solr.apache.org/guide/solr/latest/query-guide/dense-vector-search.html), paving the way for incoming improvements to the [AI Actions](ai_actions.md) feature.

#### Improved content creation interface

> The editing interface of the back office has been improved to better highlight the language, creator, and the publication date when working with content items.

Reviewer: We try to avoid Present Perfect Continuous, so we could change _has been improved_ to _is now improved_.

```suggestion
The editing interface of the back office is now improved to better highlight the language, creator, and the publication date when working with content items.
```

![Improved interface for content creation](4.6_improved_editing.png "Improved interface for content creation")

#### Taxonomy Subtree limitation

You can now manage access to [taxonomy items](taxonomy.md) more effectively by using the new [Taxonomy Subtree limitation](limitation_reference.md#taxonomy-subtree-limitation).

In addition, you can now use the [Taxonomy limitation](limitation_reference.md#taxonomy-limitation) together with the `taxonomy/assign` policy.

#### Base price column added to a Product Picker view

The Product Picker tool that, for example, lets you [select products eligible for discounts]([[= user_doc =]]/commerce/discounts/work_with_discounts/#create-new-discount), now displays a **Base price** column for products and product variants.

> #### Pagination for ezobjectrelationlist in GraphQL

Reviewer 2: `ezobjectrelationlist` FT has been renamed in 5.0

Reviewer 3: Thank you for pointing that out. Fixed

> #### Pagination for ezobjectrelationlist in GraphQL

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Pagination for ibexa_object_relation_list in GraphQL
```

> To improve performance and gain greater control over the returned responses from the [GraphQL API](graphql.md), you can now [enable pagination](relationlistfield.md#enable-pagination-in-graphql) of relations specified using the RelationList field type.

Reviewer 4: Please see https://doc.ibexa.co/en/5.0/content_management/field_types/field_type_reference/relationlistfield/#enable-pagination-in-graphql (and https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/2874)

The parameter is removed, the pagination is enabled by default.

I'd remove this section (or just mention that the pagination is enabled by default)

Author: I removed this section in 4c10a72fecf43c5f0d1051efcc18504dc1242405 as this is not a change from 5.0.1

Reviewer 3: @mnocon @adriendupuis I've added this into the release notes on purpose as it was listed in changelogs and in his review Adam requested that I change the name of the object

https://github.com/ibexa/commerce/wiki/Changelog-v5.0.1#ibexagraphql-changes-between-v500-and-v501

Does it mean our changelogs cannot be trusted?

Reviewer 4: In this case: yes, the changelog contains two changes related to https://issues.ibexa.co/browse/IBX-8417:
- add parameter
- remove parameter

which is confusing.

The first entry is the same as for 4.6, the second entry partially reverts the changes for v5 (the parameter is removed, but pagination is enabled by default).

> 

Reviewer 4: We could mention the changes to discounts as well - on v5 it's no longer an LTS update, so the same changes could be mentioned here (I mean: https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/blob/c2696b798160472b0cd0f70901811386dbe06a55/docs/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v4.6.md?plain=1#L44-L54)

Author: Done in 4c10a72fecf43c5f0d1051efcc18504dc1242405 but in one section's list.
@mnocon Is it OK for you?

Reviewer 3: @mnocon I left these changes out on purpose because they were merged to main before the 5.0.0 release (and they do not show on the changelogs).

https://github.com/ibexa/commerce/wiki/Changelog-v5.0.1#ibexadiscounts-changes-between-v500-and-v501

EDIT: Although I actually do see that prioritization was added on the 23rd of July (after 5.0.0) but it still does not show on the changelog. Why would that be?

Reviewer 4: I'm sorry, Tomek you're right - all of these Discounts features were released for 5.0.0 already, we can remove the discounts section.

Prioritatization was merged on 23.06 (https://github.com/ibexa/discounts-codes/pull/30) , 5.0.0 was released on 22.07 - it's ok, it makes sense.

> #### Other upgrades

Reviewer 4: Usually I tried to mention new PHP API changes, for example:
https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/blob/c2696b798160472b0cd0f70901811386dbe06a55/docs/release_notes/ibexa_dxp_v4.6.md?plain=1#L33-L38

We could mention the 3 new classes from https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/2882#issuecomment-3200849950 (skipping Collaboration for now)

Author: Done in 4c10a72fecf43c5f0d1051efcc18504dc1242405

This release brings other minor upgrades intended to improve the developer's experience:

- To improve code clarity, reliability, and error detection, type hint declarations that specify the expected data type have been added in multiple places throughout the product
- In anticipation of [changes coming with PHP 8.4](https://php.watch/versions/8.4/implicitly-marking-parameter-type-nullable-deprecated), implicit nullable type declarations have been replaced with nullable type declarations throughout the product code. It is recommended that you update your custom code in the same way

> - Developer experience has improved with capabilities offered by PHP in version 8.3. For example, the `AsTwigComponent` attribute [facilitates autoconfiguration](components.md#php-code) of Twig components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Developer experience is improved with capabilities offered by PHP in version 8.3. For example, the `AsTwigComponent` attribute [facilitates autoconfiguration](components.md#php-code) of Twig components
```
